integrating a podcast into regular class
curriculum is a creative way to
stimulate learning and motivate students
to participate in classroom activities
however is with any new technology
associated with the internet podcasts
have a set of security and safety
guidelines that must be observed and
followed according to government in
school policies a major safety issue to
be aware of when podcasting is that some
podcast subscriptions will ask for your
personal information it is important not
to offer students private information
such as phone numbers mailing addresses
school names age or bank account
information students should only enter
as much personal information as is
approved in writing by their parents and
then only in accordance with school
policies in most cases they should not
enter any personal information at all
another safety concern you should be
aware of when selecting podcasts for
students is how to protect your personal
information if you are visiting websites
that offer podcasts for use it is
important to check the site's privacy
policy a privacy policy will tell you
how that site will protect your personal
information and whether or not the site
will share your personal information
with other parties many podcasts you
will find on the Internet are not rated
according to any age group or content
level because of this you will never
really know if the content of a podcast
is suitable for students until you
actually listen to it for this reason it
is extremely important to monitor all of
the podcasts you plan to use before a
student accesses them in order to filter
the content and be assured that it is
appropriate
before playing or downloading podcasts
for use in class be sure to go over
Internet safety rules with your students
they need to be reminded that they
should never give out personal
information or send pictures of
themselves if students are permitted to
download they should never download
files without first getting permission
and then only with adult supervision
let's review some of the safety issues
we've discussed about podcasting so far
answer this question and then click Next
to continue with the lesson
in addition to Internet safety you
should also be aware of your school
districts acceptable use policy most if
not all school districts have policies
that address the use of technologies in
classroom learning which includes
podcasts there are often separate
policies written for teachers and
students and they must be signed prior
to the start of the school year an
acceptable use policy typically outlines
the rules pertaining to the use of
technology such as podcasting for
example it may require certain criteria
for entering personal information for
using the internet under supervision of
a teacher or for downloading content
that is related specifically to
education and research
your school's acceptable use policy may
include additional guidelines specific
to your school if so be sure that you
are aware of the policies for both the
district and the school you also need to
make sure that both your students and
their parents are aware of the policies
you may find it helpful to cover a list
of classroom rules with your students
before using the internet or podcasts
these rules should follow both
government safety guidelines and your
school's acceptable use policy the list
to the right is an example of what a
classroom rule list may look like be
sure that if you do make a classroom
rulest it doesn't contradict your
school's rules and policies
as we've discussed acceptable use
policies provide guidelines to help
protect your students when they are
using technology such as podcasts or the
Internet try answering this question
about acceptable use and then click show
correct answers to see if you were right
you
another legal issue that you should be
aware of when using podcasts is
copyright law copyright laws protect
content made available on the internet
from being reproduced without permission
be sure that the podcasts you use do not
infringe upon copyright laws you can do
this by reviewing websites copyright
policy before you download any podcasts
you also need to follow copyright laws
when you create your own podcasts if you
or your students create a podcast that
references or reuses information that
was written performed or spoken by
someone else then you must give the
original author credit in your podcast
unless that content falls under the
doctrine of fair use podcasting is an
innovative way to incorporate
information sharing into classroom
learning however it is absolutely
necessary to ensure that all safety and
security issues are followed when
integrating technologies into the
classroom be sure to stay informed of
all laws policies and guidelines as they
are continually developed and revised
here are some real life examples of how
the concepts discussed in this lesson
could be used in a classroom either as a
teaching tool or an administrative aide
you